>> Lisa Garr: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
My gift today is Ron Teeguarden,
named a master herbalist
by three herbal masters.
Ron, along with his wife,
Jan Lin own the Dragon
Herbs company,
where they provide
knowledge and materials
to the western culture, based
on ancient wisdom brought
from Chinese tonic herbalism.
Ron and his wife have spent the
last thirty years cultivating
and collecting these
herbs in China,
and he is joining us today
to talk about the art
of cultivating adaptogenic
herbs, to create radiant health.
Welcome to the show,
thank you for being here.
>> Ron Teeguarden: It's
great to be here, thank you
>> Lisa Garr: SO, tell me
what an adaptogenic herb is
and what it does
>> Ron Teeguarden: Well,
adaptogenic herb is a type
of herb like you know is
different types of things,
like cathartics or laxatives.
Well, one of the
major categories
of herbs is called adaptogenic.
These are the types of herbs
you can take an extended basis
for the purpose of helping the
body to overcome, or be capable
of overcoming different kinds of
stress, so that, in other words,
when you take adaptogenic
herb, it becomes very hot,
your body adapts more properly,
as the word adapts, adaptogenic
>> Lisa Garr: Cool
>> Ron Teeguarden: And it
would help it to stay cool,
and on the other hand if
something gets very cold,
your body will adapt
to that more easily,
and maintain itself.
But it also works with stress
and emotional things that happen
to us, so if we are
out in the work place
and suddenly it is a
very stressful day,
you know how you
can just crack up,
or if you are taking adaptogenic
herbs, you handle the stresses
of life, be it physical
labor or emotional stress,
you handle it much
more efficiently,
and that is really important
because then you do
not drain your body,
because when you are stressed
you are producing cortisol
and all those-
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah, I
was going to ask you
>> RT: Stress reactions to the
body, which causes us to age,
and causes all kinds
of disorders to occur,
but if you are not stressed out,
then your body stays
much more chemically
and emotionally balanced.
>> LG: So it literally
will balance the cortisol
in the body?
>> RT: Well it does that because
your body will not produce the
cortisol in the first place
>> LG: In the first place
>> RT: Your stress
reaction becomes efficient.
I mean, you are still
going to have to deal with,
if you are sitting
on a railroad track
and there is a train coming,
you need a burst of adrenaline
to get off the track, but you
are not going to be hanging
onto it the whole day
going, oh my life is ruined
because I am all stressed
out, I'm still nervous.
You just get over things,
and you get back to it
and your body does
not become harmed,
and that is why the adaptogenic
herbs are also considered
to be longevity herbs, and the
anti-aging herbs do not affect
you the same way.
>> LG: So the, some of the
harmful effects of stress
of course is a speeding of the
aging process, inflammation,
those types of things,
so adaptogenic herbs tend
to decrease inflammation
as well?
>> RT: Well I think all
of the adaptogenic herbs
that I know of, and I
think I know most of them,
have anti-inflammatory
effects, now, that does not mean
that they are used to
treat inflammatory diseases
like arthritis or
something like that.
These are to promote
the function of the body
so that it stays in balance, so
that you do not develop the kind
of abhorrent inflammation
that does cause us to age,
which is called inflamaging,
that is the new term
in longevity circles is as
we inflame, as we live longer
and become inflamed and then,
you know, causes us to age.
>> LG: So are the Chinese herbs
better taken as a preventative,
or are they O.K. for
reducing specific illnesses?
>> RT: Well, Chinese
herbs can be used for,
there are herbs for everything.
There are thousands of herbs.
It is the most developed
herbal system in the world;
it is way beyond
what I can learn
in a lifetime or
any herbal estam.
But there have been
herbs, which you would go
to a Chinese doctor, and they
can give you a concoction,
or something, that you take for
one day or two day, you know,
for some disorder, and
then take another one,
you cannot take those
for a long time,
because they are unidirectional.
The chemistry goes in one
direction and does something,
that is why you need
expert care.
The tonic herbs on the
other hand are kind of like,
universal, anybody can take
them, you take them like food.
They are like having almonds and
raisins, or something like that,
but only at a very high
level of benefit to the body.
They contain specific chemistry
that makes us live longer,
age more slowly, benefits
our cardiovascular
and nervous system, and liver,
but with no side effects.
So they are like an
extra food group,
and just a very special one.
>> LG: Interesting.
So you have been to incredibly
beautiful places in China,
and we have a video here
where you are going to talk us
through some of these places,
so we are bringing China
to you today, through
this video.
So, first of all what are these
berries we are looking at?
>> RT: That is schisandra,
it actually means it is
called five flavor tea,
because it has different
kinds of flavors in it.
That was my teacher Sun Jin
Park [assumed spelling],
he was lifting a barbell
with his teeth there,
but he was my great
teacher who taught me
about the three treasures.
That is him now,
forty-five years later.
This is Shin Nang
[assumed spelling],
the founder of Chinese
herbalism.
He divided the herbs
into tonic general
and inferior herbs and so forth.
This is schisandra
once it is dried,
and that is it once
it when it is fresh.
I am fortunate enough to be able
to go to these wonderful places-
>> LG: And what are the
properties of schisandra?
>> RT: Well schisandra is
called the quintessence
of Chinese herbs.
It is an herb that benefits
virtually every function
in the body in some kind of way.
It is a major major adaptogen.
It is also very good for
your mind and for your brain,
and for your memory, yeah
we are just collecting,
Jan Lin [assumed spelling] is
my wife, we were picking some
at the market we were at the
base of Chung Bai mountain,
she was just picking some, we
were going to take them home
and put them in some, no
take them back to the hotel,
put them in some liquor-
>> LG: schisandra wine
>> RT: This is an actually
view of Chung Bai mountain.
It's a volcano.
Chung Bai mountain is a
place that is very special,
it mostly stays snow covered.
This is a rare moment when it is
not, it is called heaven lake,
you can see how we mote, that
is what I was trying to do
in this video is give you
an idea of the remoteness
of where our herbs come from.
These are not farmed in the
flatland down where the corn is
and soy comes from, uh yeah.
It is the water, and you know
we are, the water is remarkable
and I can describe that
more later, but that is just
up in China, and it
is one of the most,
it is a protected biosphere
by the United Nations.
There is just no industry
near there, and it is one
of the richest sources
of herbs in the world-
>> LG: Because of that water
because it is so
rich in minerals.
>> RT: Because it is volcanic
water, right, it is mentioned,
every herb, every
place I get herbs,
I go to see what
the water is first.
The water, we are made out
of water, water is the basis
of life, and what the source
of water is, it is critical
to a good herb or not.
I do not think most people
think about that, they just look
at a bottle and it says
schisandra, but ours comes
from where the water was from
miles deep from a volcano.
Yeah, this is some time
ago, I am up in the forest,
my great host took me to a herb
walk, and we went out to just
in Chung Bai mountain, it
is not the highest altitude,
this is these film here is a
moderate, that is Choriolis
versus Pillar, and we are just
looking at a little frog we saw,
and that is my first site
of schisandra growing.
It is a vine, it hangs on the
trees, and I am just going
to collect some schisandra, we
are going to go home with a bag
of it, and a bunch
of other herbs too.
We found ginseng, and Siberian
ginseng, we have found wild ,
all kinds of herbs up in
the mountain that day.
>> LG: Wild don quay
>> RT: Very happy
to find schisandra.
That was my host.
These people know so much
about herbs, it is amazing.
Anyway, that was wild off
the vine, and my first cut,
and I look very proud of myself
>> LG: It's exciting,
it's very exciting.
>> RT: Sure, there is nothing
like going out, it is beautiful.
You go out to the forest
and you find these,
this is a magical herb.
Schisandra is one of
the quintessential herbs
in the world for your health.
It is great for your skin and
you beauty and your sex life.
The very famous imperial women
and the kings always
took schisandra to spur
on their, let's say, libido.
>> LG: Fertility-
>> RT: Yeah, and that
is what we collected,
that was our collection
at the end
of the day, that was our booty
>> LG: Oh my goodness
>> RT: And you see I have
a couple of ginseng roots
>>LG: What is the
difference between Siberian,
and you mentioned other,
oh wow, you put the ginseng
>> RT: Yeah, we put
it in liquor,
we actually literally put
it in Chinese white wine.
We put the ginseng root
and schisandra there,
and that is how we took it
back to our home in Fujo.
Anyway, we went further up the
mountain, and now we are going
up the hill, we are entering
sort of a national park zone
of the decabou hill and that
is where we are, this is,
it looks like winter,
but actually you can see
from the video before
that it was quite warm,
this is September.
But it is very, it's at
the snow line up there.
You can see the steam is
because this is a volcano,
and these are vents coming
up, you can actually,
they boil you eggs in
the water coming up,
and everything like that.
But this water coming
down is magical water;
you can see it pouring
over from the lake
at the top of the volcano.
It is a huge waterfall, and
the biggest in the world.
And the water is very,
very, very mineral.
It is coming from a mile or
so, miles deep in the Earth,
and it is rich with
some kinds of minerals
that are not found other places,
and that floods the
entire mountain.
>> LG: Valley there
>> RT: All because there are
rivers coming out on all sides.
So, the herbs that grow on
Shanghai mountain are based
on this unique water that has
produced things like ginseng
and racey, and like I mentioned,
schisandra, these are herbs
that do not grow well any
place else in the world.
They just, they grow, but
they do not grow like this.
You know
>> LG: You cannot
replicate that, yes, yes.
>> RT: NO, you cannot
replicate this.
So I am just showing the
water; water is Godly.
You know, it is the source
of life, and so when we go
to get Goji berries or when
we go to get gynostemma,
or ginseng, or schisandra, it
is where the water comes from.
It's got to be a spring or it's
got to be a mountain spring
or a river, or sometimes
we use glacial water,
but we do not use
irrigation from cheap places,
and that is why everything
has come
from the high mountain
or remote place.
The highest level up you
can get before it runs
down through any kind
of possible pollutants,
so this is my ode
to water right now.
>> LG: And the music
under this is composed by
>> RT: It was composed by
me, I do that as my hobby,
I was playing with
it, I am lucky enough
to have a musician friend,
Harvy Mandell, he even played
with the rolling stones
and with many people
as the lead guitarist,
he is performing this
music for me, with me.
And that is just showing
the remoteness, you can,
as far as your eye can see,
there is no industry,
no pollution.
People got worried about
pollution from Chinese herbs,
and I do not blame them.
There are places
where down below,
some Chinese herb companies,
they get their herbs
from the flat lands, where
you know, regular farms,
where they are also
spraying other things,
and the soil is not,
but we do not do that.
I personally think that
it is available to get it
from these remote places,
why not just go get it,
you know, it is a little work
>> LG: It seems like
there are a lot of venders
and there is a lot of people
that have done the work for you
from these beautiful places
who are willing to bring it
down to you and sell it
>> RT: There are far more
people working for me
in China then here, because
there are people who are
on the ground, they know the
herbs, it was in their families,
this is generational, and then
we make, we do the production,
so we make the goji
and schisandra,
where the schisandra ET, which
I can show you in a second,
which is a remarkable,
it is really one
of the breakthrough
products in really the world,
in terms of a health
product, it is actually-
>> LG: You have it?
Yeah Yeah.
>> RT: This is it in a little
tub, it is very beautiful.
It is a pink powder, usually
when you extract an
extract, it just turns brown.
You know, almost all the
extracts in the world
because that is what
the extraction does,
but when you get the, when you
use a technique called FIT,
fingerprint identical
transfer technology,
it is extracted cold, in
cold water, and it is done
by pressure and not by
cooking, so it extracts all
of the chemicals out, a
hundred percent identical
to the raw plant, but
there is no cooking.
So it is raw.
>> LG: Is it compressing it?
>> RT: Actually using pressure
that is vibrating a hundred
times a second, vacuum,
high pressure vacuum,
like back and forth,
and it cracks the cells
and basically juices,
things that are too tough
to be juiced in a juicer,
and so you get the juice
powder, then we dry it.
>> LG: Interesting
>> RT: And it is, so there
is no chemicals in it,
and you can see how pink, you
would not get pink like this
from a usual, and we do it,
we always extract things
near where we extract it.
And so we have several factories
in different parts of China.
This is actually a, I'm going
to make a nice strong
one for myself.
This is cold water,
not hot at this point.
I will stir it and
about a minute
from now it is going
to just turn-
>> LG: A pretty pink, and it
does not clump up like things do
when they get into water
>> RT: No, and instant
teas have chemicals
that make them instant, this
does not have any chemicals,
it is just schisandra.
And schisandra as I said is
called five flavored tea,
so it is complex, it
has got the five flavors
and the five elements, so it has
got sour, bitter, sweet, salty,
and spicy, all in
one very complex,
thing is it has got
a unique flavor,
but this was the official
tea, schisandra was
of an imperial household,
for a century
where all the women drank
it to maintain their beauty,
and Emperors maintain it to
keep a strong, powerful body
and mind, you see how
it is starting to-
>> LG: Now, does it
increase circulation,
and why does it increase
focus and memory?
>> RT: Well, it is the only
herb in Chinese herbalism,
and this is saying a lot,
with all the kinds of herbs,
including ginseng that
tonifies all three treasures,
that was Jing, Qi, Shen.
So it builds your Jing,
which is your adrenal,
you know, functions.
It builds your central
nervous system,
it strengthens your reproductive
system and your brain,
it makes your brain, like
your memory will get stronger
from drinking it.
It is very famous for its
beauty, if you drink it
for a hundred days, then your
skin will completely change.
It will become all like not
wet, but shiny and beautiful.
It was a famous famous
thing for the people.
Women drink it and still do.
>> LG: Of course
>> RT: To stay young looking.
There's a famous thing was
the schisandra one hundred
day challenge.
Thousands of people
have done it,
where you just make sure you
drink schisandra every single
day, and when I got my
teacher San Jung Park,
the guy with the barbell
in his mouth a minute ago,
he had me drink schisandra,
make a, I would grind it
up into a powder
in a coffee grinder
and take a teaspoon a
day for a hundred days
to build my three
treasures: Jing, Qi, and Shen,
but it was very gritty
and hard to eat.
Now we get the exact same thing,
it is completely extracted,
all the chemicals are
there in an instant drink,
you can see at this
point there is no residue
or anything, no chemical.
>> LG: Oh it's clear,
it's beautiful,
and is this something you take,
you drink two teaspoons a day,
or is it throughout the day?
>> RT: Well, you can
do whatever you want.
If you took a teaspoon a day
which is my target in life,
that, I think probably
in my opinion,
it would add decades
to your life.
>> LG: Oh my goodness
>> RT: And also it just keeps
you, you know it protects you,
it protects your liver,
it protects your brain,
it protects your cardiovascular
system, you know, it does a lot
of things that are important,
so it is just a tonic herb.
You take it every day, and
you can mix other things.
I do not take one thing,
I take a dozen things every
day because I remember-
>> LG: Tell me what you
take, what do you take?
>> RT: Well, I am a kid in a
candy shop, I am a collector,
so obviously, you know, but
I just take tonic herbs.
I never take medicinal herbs.
It is like-
>> LG: You don't eat them.
>> RT: I probably needed
them in the beginning
for like a few months when I
was first dealing with things
but it has been about
thirty-five years
since I have taken
a medicinal herb.
It is just taking these
things on a daily basis.
So I take, for sure
every day I take reishi.
>> LG: Beautiful beautiful,
this is a reishi mushroom
>> RT: That is a reishi.
That is a reishi.
This is a Mongolian reishi, you
know, this is from Mongolia.
They look different depending
on where you get them, but they,
but it's all got that-
They build your immune
system, they are protection.
They are called the
mushroom of immortality.
It builds your spiritual power.
It was the herb of the,
you know like I showed you,
it was one of the great
masters of all time;
it is called the herb king.
He lived to be a hundred
years old in real history
and he has got this
mushroom in his hand
>> LG: And little medicine
boxes, that is all he needs.
>> RT: Yeah little
medicine boxes, right right.
But he was giving medicine,
but for himself he was
using the reishi mushroom.
And so reishi, I take
gynostemma every day,
gynostemma is an herb,
it is a leafy plant,
this is one from my garden.
I actually eat this
in my salads;
I do not drink the tea from it.
The tea I drink is spring
garden tea, and that is where,
that is the original source
where it grows the best
in the world, so we
make spring dragon tea;
that is what I will drink.
But I do pull these
off and mix them
with my green salad every day.
These are in my yard
and I just grown them
and just pulled them
off this morning
>> LG: Oh, interesting.
Are they bitter or
are they sweet?
>> RT: It is just like a green,
just like a typical green,
it's like a spinach
or something.
It's pleasant.
Then I, let us see so, reishi,
schisandra every day, ginseng,
ginseng is one of the
major herbs in the world,
it's an adaptogenic,
it protects you,
it is very immune
system powerful,
when you get really old
ginseng that is more
than thirteen years old, then
the death genes turn off,
it actually becomes kind of
an immortal, ginseng will live
to be hundreds of years
old, so I take wild ginseng,
because only the
youngest ginseng
in that extract called heaven
drops is fifteen years old
and we have some
sixty, even a hundred,
even less because you
may have a ginseng
that was a hundred years old.
>> LG: So how many ginseng roots
do you put into that batch?
>> RT: There are
hundreds, but you know,
it is all I can buy in a year.
Each one is collected
individually.
>> LG: Oh, for a year
>> RT: I have to go and
have them collected for me,
and you know, get them
from different places,
and then you know, I pick
each one myself, heaven drops,
those things, I pick myself.
I do not have an employee
that does that yet.
>> LG: So those are like
vintage wine bottles, those-
>> RT: Especially the cram
of ginseng in the world.
Like I said, everyone
has very ancient roots.
You cannot, and everyone had
different adaptogenic needs
depending on where, what side of
the mountain, or which crevice,
or you know, how many bugs
attacked it or whatever.
It survived for decades
and decades in Manchuria,
and it is just a soft
little carrot like thing.
It is not very well
protected in that sense,
but it is the strongest
adaptogen you can imagine.
Talking about that,
I also take rhodiola,
which comes from Tibet.
This is rhodiola here; you
might want to smell that-
>> LG: What is it?
>> RT: It is a very...this
grows above the snow line,
in other words the snow never
melts, and it is a root,
and that is just a chunk of the
root, you can give it a whiff.
You'll see how strong that is.
It is potent is it not?
>> LG: It is wonderful.
>> RT: And this plant,
the weather changes sixty
degrees approximately
on a typical day to night,
and so its adaptability
is incredible,
and the flat name is rhodiola
sacra; the sacra meant sacred.
In Tibet it is one of
the three sacred herbs,
it is actually used by
the spiritual seekers,
they would grind this into
powder and either take it,
or extract it, and
then the monks would go
up to the mountain and meditate
for their meditation
periods from time to time.
Now the sherpas take it
to go up for air sickness,
because when you take this
herb, it pretty much close
to doubles the amount of
oxygen reaching your brain
in about ten minutes
after taking it,
and so it is pretty much like
putting an oxygen mask on,
or like taking an oxygen bar-
>> LG: Oh my goodness!
>> Yeah, that is
a very, you would,
even sniffing it a couple times,
you have actually increased
the oxygen in your body.
>> LG: That works for me!
>> RT: It is a really
remarkable,
it is a famous brain tonic,
it is also really good
for your heart, and then goji
is the last one I really have
to mention.
There are a few others
I would take,
but goji is the most important
gin tonic in the world.
A lot of people take
goji I am sure,
a lot of people watching today
have tasted goji in the market
but I do not know if they have
tasted goji of this quality.
You know there are different
qualities of every herb,
the range is gigantic, that
is, just been my fun in my life
to actually go and
actually find,
you know I keep saying I want
the best, I want the best,
and I pressure people and we get
the best there is in the world,
and goji is almost a
miraculous Jing restorative.
The Jing is that primal
energy that we use,
that determines our life span,
and the power of our life,
and we use up that
energy living,
and it is like our battery.
And no matter what they say
about it being an antioxidant
and other thing, those are
not the important things
with the fact of restorative
Jing, so powerfully
and so quickly, and so a
handful a day keeps your Jing,
your battery, charged.
And this is-
>> LG: That is it,
just a handful a day
>> RT: That is right,
and so this is called,
this is the best
grade in the world.
It grows on glacial melt,
only that is all it is,
it is at the base of the
second highest mountain range
in the world, it is
called Heaven Mountain.
It melts there, the
glaciers melt,
this thirty thousand
year old glacier melts
and irrigates this place and
that is what these, taste them-
>> LG: This is really
the most beautiful;
it is not dried up like ISBC
>> RT: No, we package
them there,
so that they do not, before they
>> LG: They taste like raisins,
this is the sweetest goji-
>> RT: Yeah.
>> LG: I have never tasted,
it is not bitter at all.
>> RT: No, that is right.
>> LG: They are not
supposed to be, are they?
>> RT: No, This is
the real thing
>> LG: They are very sweet
>> RT: Yeah, and it is natural.
There have now been
companies, people have thought,
oh you must sweeten them and
so they actually sent them
out to labs to see if we,
you know, sweetened them
but they all came back
and said Oh my God,
that's actually natural.
>> LG: Do they have a high
sugar content in them?
>> RT: Glucose, fructose
and those thing,
but you know it is funny,
in goji is the most commonly
used herb for diabetes in China.
We do not, and I'm
not even close
to saying it's used
to treat that.
>> LG: Interesting
>> RT: It seems to be
metabolized in a very good way.
You know you do not want
to eat too much of anything
in the world, like
everything is about balance.
>> LG: But it is in a very
low glycemic category.
>> RT: Yeah, and actually the
body uses it very efficiently
to regulate the system,
and for that purpose.
It is about, well they
are definitely delicious.
>> LG: Oh they are
>> RT: Surprisingly,
people would, yeah
>> LG: And so, we are
learning about a lot
of different types
of herbs today.
One of the ones you have in
this beautiful picture is of,
this is the snow lotus?
>> RT: Yeah, that
is the snow lotus
>> LG: And what is that?
>> RT: There is two main
sources of snow lotus.
One is Tibet, you know, at the
snow line, both of them grow,
you know you go up
about fifteen, sixteen,
seventeen thousand feet, and all
of a sudden the snow
never melts.
>> LG: Wow
>> RT: That is where
you see the hymala-
>> LG: Yes
>> RT: The big mountains where
the snow is always there.
So snow lotus grows
right at the snow line,
and so it is always either
snowy, icy, or just there,
and it is always the ground's
hard, and snow lotus is one
of those huge adaptive,
it is one of the three sacred
herbs of the Himalayas.
It is used to purify your
blood, and for beauty.
It used to be the present,
people from the Himalayas would
collect and they would take it
to the Chinese Empress,
and that would be there,
instead of silk or you know-
>> LG: So they would have to
climb to seventeen thousand feet
and get this beautiful
herb which is,
good thing they find it up there
in case they need
it for circulation
>> RT: That variety is
white; the other kind is
from Heaven Mountain,
that mountain I said is
the second highest mountain
in the world.
That is where our goji grow,
but if you go up higher
than the goji, up to the snow
line, then you get a red,
the white snow line is
from Tibet is considered
the best in the world.
That is the kind, the
premium, and that is what,
actually once it is dry, this
is one that has been dried,
that is the same thing
you're seeing on the screen
>> LG: You are kidding, what
are the health benefits of the-?
>> RT: It purifies your
blood, it is very purifying,
so it makes your skin beautiful,
because it takes away the
poison from your body.
>> LG: The toxins
>> And it is very adaptogenic
and it is also considered
an aphrodesiac.
>> LG: Oh, really?
>> RT: All the tonic
herbs, they are going
to boost some basic
things, right-
>> LG: Oh, that is
wonderful, well, alright,
so we mentioned the gynostemma,
and we have a picture
of the gynostemma fields
here, now this is a place
that you traveled
to, where is this?
>> RT: Well, that is
actually our plantation.
It has got beautifully and about
twenty years ago I was on a,
I was going to China,
and I got to the airport
and realized I had
forgotten my passport,
so I had to run home really
quickly and I came back
to the airport and they
had given my seat away.
So, then they said, well I will
tell you what, they can seat you
in first class, so they bumped
me up to first class coach,
which is really a great
deal, and I sat next to,
by coincidence, sat next to a
man who saw what I was reading
or something, and he
introduced himself
and he was the commissioner
of drug approval
for the people's republic of
China, and after getting to talk
to him for a few minutes
because he spoke great English,
I realized that I reached
into my bag and I pulled
out an article he had
written, this guy next to me-
>> LG: Oh my goodness.
>> RT: On the anti-aging herbs
of China, that was the name
of the article, and it was all,
you know, yellowed, and notes
and everything, so obviously
he became instantly bonded
to this guy he just met.
>> LG: You.
>> RT: He became a great
teacher of mine for a long time;
he was in all of China.
But the second trip to China I
asked him, what is a new herb
that is really going
to be great,
that is the most awesome herb,
a tonic herb, anti-aging herb,
so he said you have got
to check into gynostemma,
they are just learning
how to cultivate it,
and so we got this, we
met this through him,
a couple other people, we
actually asked somebody
if they would grow us
gynostemma in a virgin ground,
in a mountain, and they actually
picked the place, [inaudible],
authentic area where it
really grows, and they went up
and they actually cut this
little valley out for us,
>> LG: Oh my goodness
>> RT: Planted this, so
there has never been anything
but nature grown here before,
and so this plantation
was be growing it
for about eighteen years,
and it is gynostemma,
one of the great herbs
in the world, yeah.
>> LG: And the properties
of gynostemma?
>> RT: Well, gynostemma
has chemistry very similar
to ginseng.
It is called miracle
grass in china
because it grows very
quickly, so it is much cheaper
than ginseng, but it has
the same kind of chemistry,
the same adaptogenic herb the
chemicals, they call sapinins,
it actually has got more.
And so the people that
live in this area,
they are the longest
living people in the world,
there is more oxygen per
capita than any place.
And these people, they still
smoke or do their stuff,
but they still live longer
than those who everybody else.
It is because they drink
this tea every single day,
this thing here, so we just made
a copy of the key they make,
it is called spring
dragon tea, and-
>> LG: You put it in-
>> RT: Yeah, I drink it, you
asked what do I drink every day,
I said gynostemma, but I
actually take my gynostemma
as spring garden tea, because
that is how they have been doing
it there for centuries, so
basically this is a tea bag.
>> LG: Can you put this
with the schisandra powder?
>> RT: I say, why not?
Key, so usually that is
exactly what you would do.
>> LG: Oh, OK
>> RT: Now this is a
tea, usually you have tea
with a hotter water, with
schisandra powder you can have,
but I mix things, you know the
tonic herbs, I am not going
to settle for one, those things,
all those things I mentioned
that I take every day;
I probably take them
in one swallow from
different things that I have.
>> LG: Alright, so now this
is a beautiful close picture
of the gynostemma leaf
in this particular field.
>> RT: See, that is much better
than the ones I grew myself.
I get a lot growing, you would
be amazed, I have a hill side
of this growing, but this is the
place where it is being grown,
where thousands or millions
of years and it just grows
so strong and so beautiful
and you know, you go there
and it is like, when you go
there you have to watch out for,
the big issue is
when you are going
out into the fields
you have to watch
for leopards and wild boars.
It's like, there is no
road going to the field,
it is just like little mountain
walks and things like that.
There is a guy that
works on this plantation,
we are not making him
work like a sweat shop,
but he is a hundred years old
>> LG: That was picked this
morning; Oh my goodness.
>> RT: He still wants to go out
to the field from the village,
so he goes out every
day and helps tend it
and it is just beautiful,
it is just great
to be a tonic herbalist
to say the least
>> LG: Yes, no kidding.
So there is so much knowledge
you have about these,
let us talk a little
bit about what is
on the table here, this is the-
>> RT: This is a red
mushroom, it is rare,
I mean I do not think
anybody has it
in the United States really,
but it only grows in one place,
it is wild, it only grows in
one place, it is the same place
that the gynostemma comes from,
and if you put it into water,
maybe we can use this water.
I know it is just sitting here,
but you put it in this water,
if it was hot water it would
go faster, but you put it in,
and after about, we'll just let
it sit we can come back to it
in a few minutes, but
it is going to turn red.
And by coincidence this is an
amazing blood tonic, so women,
one of the big issues
in the human life is
that women lose blood
every month,
or if they do not then you
need to build your blood,
so women need to be drinking
blood tonics all the time,
things that help
enrich their blood.
To re-boost trillions of
blood cells a day almost.
And so basically, it
probably works better.
>> LG: You can see
that already, yeah
>> RT: That red pigment
in reality,
if it was hot water this
would turn bright red,
stunningly blood red and by
nature's coincidence it becomes,
it actually rapidly
increases blood count.
So, especially after your period
for like three, four, five days,
you are supposed to
take these red mushrooms
and they are very precious.
And they cannot figure
out how they grow them,
so they cannot cultivate them.
All they do is-
>> LG: Pick them in the wild
>> RT: Pick them
in the wild, yeah.
And you can see how
beautiful that is-
>> LG: Wow, that is amazing
>> RT: And that is
just in cold water.
>> LG: When you say that they
are rare, they are hard to find?
>> RT: Yeah.
This one, there is not much
produced, and I just heard
about it when I went on my
trip to get the gynostemma.
And you can see the local people
selling them at certain times
of the year and then I,
what I do, what is it?
And I got the translation
that it is a blood tonic-
>> LG: OK
>> RT: Really strong
blood tonic.
Then they cook them too.
One you saw, they will be soft
mushrooms and you can put them
in salads, soups
or anything else.
>> LG: Oh my goodness, wow
>> RT: And that is a great
way to take a blood tonic.
>> LG: Absolutely
>> RT: Your cheeks turn rosy;
you actually get another half
a pint of blood or something
from doing that once a month.
And look how beautiful that is
>> LG: Turns red so fast, by the
end of the show, and then the,
you can tell that the
mushrooms are starting to.
So when a mushroom dries
or the reishi dries,
it does not lose any of its
properties to the drying
after you have picked it?
>> RT: No, I do not think
anybody gets these things.
The whole legacy of these
herbs is dried, you know,
because people are
going up to the mountain
and they are bringing them down,
and then they dry
them to protect them.
Cause if you take a mushroom
and you did not let it dry,
it would get all funky
really, you know, the next day.
So they put it out in
the sun and they dry it.
And then that is what is
become the herbal lure,
based on the dried version.
You know.
>> LG: Oh, I see
>> RT: Now that does not mean
you cannot take it fresh,
you know, like, but I do not
think there is much change
in the potency.
They've learned how
to dry them properly,
and they do not over dry them.
Like, the gynostemma,
it's a green leafy thing,
but it would turn into
compost if we did not dry it.
SO they put it in little baskets
and they dry it for a few days.
And our goji, you know, like
we used to try to get it moist
like this and put it into bags.
It rotted.
So we had to get a
special bag that was sealed
in a certain kind of way,
and it is just the porousness
became very very low, so that.
>> LG: Interesting
>> RT: So it protected it from
spoiling, but once you open them
because they are
wet, they're moist.
Then you got to sort
of eat them in a week.
Ever refrigerate it.
Not real fast, but you
cannot wait like that.
Once you shoot the
market, they are very dry.
Those have been so overly dry,
but it created shelf
life, those are too dry.
>> LG: That is why those
tasted like raisins yeah,
and they were soft like raisins.
Alright, now we have a
picture here of cordyceps.
And they are natural?
>> RT: Yeah, that is cordyceps.
Glutenease cordyceps.
Cordyceps of course is, it is a
weird thing, it is a mushroom.
That is a hundred percent
mushroom, but it was a fungus,
the mushroom comes down and
puts a spore into the body
of a caterpillar, and it retains
the shape of the caterpillar,
but it is converted
into a mushroom.
>> LG: Oh, I was wondering why
they look like caterpillars.
>> RT: Yeah, they look like
it, they will fake you out.
They look just like
a caterpillar,
but they are a hundred
percent vegetarian
because they have been converted
into- In nature, and these are
at the snow line also, these
are about a hundred feet lower
than the rhodiola though.
These are collected
just below the snowline
where rhodiola was just
above it, but they are also-
At night it snows, and
in the day it melts,
so you know it is
like- And this is one
of the most precious
tonic herbs in the world.
Cordyceps is the most expensive
herb in the world right now;
it is literally selling
for about forty million
dollars a ton right now.
>> LG: What, why is that?
>> RT: It has just gone up.
Because it is considered to be a
super over the top adaptogenic.
It's super over the
top protective
for your immune system, and
it's considered longevity
and anti-aging herb.
And then it is considered
to be one
of the major aphrodisiac
herbs of China.
They know a few things
about some aphrodisiacs.
>> RG: Of course.
>> RT: It is very precious
>> LG: Now here is a
picture of what it looks
like in the spring,
it's really beautiful.
>> RT: Yeah, that is right
>> LG: In April
>> RT: That is how it was
when they pulled it up.
>> LG: And now?
>> RT: Oh, that is the
mushroom coming out.
Under the ground is
the little wormy guy,
I thought I had a picture here.
>> LG: He was right there.
>> RT: There they are.
>> LG:: Here they are .
>> RT: : These are from...these
broke off a little bit,
they are not perfect anymore.
Because we extract
everything over there.
It is a lot better to
get it done properly.
But you can just see it; I do
not know if you can see it,
it does look just like
a...and the Bhutanese ones have
red eyes.
That is why I was knowing that-
>> LG: Looked like it-
>> RT: But the blue ones have
black eyes, they're the same-
>> LG: OK
>> RT: But...basically it
has a mushroom that comes off
and then the fruiting
body, and it is all good,
the whole thing is worth a lot.
>> LG: That is amazing.
Now what about when you see
the cordyceps in the market
in the capsules that are white.
What, do those?
>> RT: Now that is different.
That is what they call mycelium.
That is where they
actually grew it in a tank.
Kind of like, it would be
like kind of like a mash,
a little bit like dog food.
And they put it in there, then
they put the- And it turns
into a fungal mass, and it
just becomes a fungal mass.
It is a biotechnology process.
And it is a very good substance,
and I do approve of it,
but it is not the
same as the wild.
You can get wild, and you can
get nowadays, you can get wild,
and you can get semi-wild, and
then you can get the mycelium,
which is the white kind.
>> LG: I see
>> RT: Which is much cheaper.
>> LG: OK, that makes sense.
>> RT: That is what it
comes down to, to go,
I cannot go to collect cordyceps
because they have to train,
you have to train to
go up to that altitude
because you cannot breathe.
>> LG: Sure .
>> RT: It is three miles up.
>> LG: OK, now I understand why.
>> RT: Yeah.
>> LG: Now, we have a
video of you here of you,
and the audio is a little
bit different, heard to hear
on this one, but
take a look at this.
And this is Ron, in a
traditional Chinese factory
>> RT: Yeah, well this
is very traditional
if this is what I think
you are going to show.
>> LG: Yeah, take a look.
>> RT: That is twenty years ago,
and so this is how
things used to be.
Things used to be cooked in a
pot, and this is of course just,
this is a small workshop at
the Fojo traditional factory.
And I was just- That
though happens
to have sixteen major
tonic herbs in it.
I know I am going to talk some
>> LG: Wow
>> RT: But that is very very old
fashioned, I know, first I want
to give a preface to everybody,
that this is not what it is
like now, and we will
see that in a second.
But this is how they used to
make the tea, they would stir it
and cook it in a pot, and I
think what I am explaining here,
and you can go onto my website
and probably hear what
I am really saying.
But I'm just explaining
the three treasures
and how this is the
ultimate adaptogenics.
I was actually, this
was a prototype
for a formula we were making,
and I just found this video
recently, so it's kind of-
>> LG: That is great,
that is really great.
>> RT: Well, it is what you
would do in your own house,
but it is not what
we would do anymore.
But it is beautiful.
>> LG: It is still being
done in China though, right?
>> RT: This is really
very heartland of China.
That is very much China.
And you would not see that here.
Long time ago
>> LG: And there are sixteen
different herbs in there?
>> RT: There are sixteen herbs.
That was a formula I made for
a multilevel marketing company.
It was called Emperor's Chi.
Actually was very successful.
>> LG: And now is this,
do you have to keep it
in motion, the stirring process?
>>RT: Yeah, well it would stick
to the side, but you know,
you just stir it, you know,
that is the old fashioned way,
that is probably the way they
did it for thousands of years.
Made the pot of tea.
At home now if I was
to cook some stuff up,
I would still sit there,
and you know, like-
>> LG: Stir it.
>> RT: Like stirring soup
or something like that,
and you want all the
herbs to come out,
and you do not want things
to harden at the edge,
but anyway that is
an old fashioned.
>> LG: And now you are
making a tonic out of this?
>> RT: Yeah, they would actually
take this...once it is done they
would screen it, you
know, and drain it,
and then they would put
it into a little teeny,
because we are making
a prototype,
a little spray dry
machine that would dry it
into a powder again, and then
that would be something we
would, in this particular case,
we still make the
exact same formula,
it is called super adaptogen,
I still sell the same
thing twenty years later,
but it is a capsule.
Much more sophisti-
the technology has,
the reason this video, I put
it up on the web was to show
where things have come from.
You know, my blessing
was I started to go
to China before it boomed.
You know? Before
it became modern.
It was, when I got there, it was
so old fashioned and so archaic
and the way it has been,
then right before my eyes
it became technologically.
You know, I mean, it took time,
but started getting investment
from the outside world, and then
became a powerhouse of its own.
And so this old fashioned
scene, you will never see again.
It is not how they do it.
Now the technology, every,
the extraction tanks,
at least the ones we use I know-
>> LG: I have a picture of, yeah
>> RT: Are computer
driven, you know,
everything is computer driven,
to actually go in and work
in there, you are practically
wearing a hazmat outfit,
they are extremely clean.
I do not think we are
going to see them today,
but the take is all these
factories are, everybody,
they have workers constantly
cleaning everything,
it is very very clean.
Remember, this, these
factories, we picked them
because they were
near water sources
where the water is the
purest in the world.
>> LG: These factories
are in China?
>> RT: This is China.
>> LG: Is your factory?
The one here?
>> RT: Yeah, well
I do not own it,
but we contract exclusively
with it.
We have four factories
that we do everything at,
and yeah this is, you know,
you can see shiny it is.
>> LG: How clean.
>> RT: Yeah, we take you
know, a pride in that,
and that is important
because not every factory
in the world is like that.
>> LG: And now what is the point
of the cleanliness,
I mean obviously to
>> RT: I mean, you know,
you do not want...you know,
this is the most, you know like
I sometimes think people are
in technologies like computers
or cell phones, you know,
and it is like high
technology, and you are dealing
with people's lives, you know
finding people and do all kinds
of things, but these herbs
you actually, you take them,
I take them, I have got
thousands, tens of thousands
of people that take
our dragon herbs.
And I am responsible for them
living long, and you know,
and these herbs, I go to
really a lot of trouble,
I am putting my whole life
into collecting the best herbs.
I want them to come out of
the tank, go into the tank,
and come out so good
that it is over the top.
Just like that.
And then, so to do that
you have to have a factory
that has got the, what do
you call it, oil traps,
when the vapors go up.
This factory, that first factory
you can practically smell
the stuff.
That stuff is going up
to atmosphere, you see?
But these days, now it is all
collected in these oil traps
and it crystallizes, and
then they put the crystals
of the aromatic oils
back into the thing.
It is like perfect.
That is what I am
saying, it is better
to take these extracts now then
to actual cook them yourself.
It would seem surprising, but
it- The better the technology,
the more natural the
end products become,
and you can see this
is the factory
where we make our FIT tea.
The tea that turned into
automatically this schisandra.
This is, these, there are
no heaters in this factory,
they don't heat the water.
It is all done in,
but these pressures.
So these are the tanks.
>> LG: And where does
the water come from?
>> RT: It comes from a
mountain, and it is nearby.
It is an actual mountain spring,
and that is, and they will,
you know, filter it again.
But all the really, Chinese
are very savvy and Koreans
and the people worried
about the water that goes
in to make things, and,
you know, not everything
in the world is perfect.
There are a lot of dirty
things out there, but-
>> LG: A lot of bacteria.
>> RT: I go to hundreds and
hundreds of factories looking
for the best ones, you know,
I have gone to that many.
It has been, a good part of
my life has been wasted going
to factories that were not good,
they did not have the right
water or the right filters
and the right oil traps.
And luckily we have
landed on great things.
And you can just see how,
once again, how clean
and how technologically advanced
this is in the world actually.
>> LG: You have done a
lot of research on this.
Now this particular
picture, what is in this vat?
>> RT: That is the actual tank.
That is, well, let us see,
the main silver thing
there, that is the tank.
They would actually, there is
a hole at the top, a trap door,
and you would just pour, you
know, the herbs go into there
and it goes down another floor.
So it is like two stories tall
and it cooks, and then it goes
down at the end of the day, it
all goes down to another tank
where they condense it
and they spray dry it.
They dry it in the
flash drying technology
that makes it into powder.
And then you take a capsule.
>> LG: Oh my goodness,
that is fascinating.
So when it spray dries it
goes up and then it turns
into a powdery type
of substance?
>> RT: Yes, spray
drying is really a-
It is pretty miraculous to me.
Fortunately my father-in-law,
Yin Ling's dad, his,
I did not know this when I met
her, it just became by luck
that he builds Chinese
herbal factories.
>> LG: Oh my goodness
>> RT: Can you believe that
one in a trillion lucky, well,
the one in you know
at least a billion,
but that is what
his profession was,
building Chinese
herbal factories.
So, I learned...that is
why I got good at this,
I have got to admit it,
it was luck of the draw.
Get on the right air
plane and meet the guy
who can tell me everything, and-
>> LG: Well I am sure you
have been told by your masters
that this is your
destiny that you are on.
>> RT: So these kind
of things, I go there,
but father-in-law goes and
inspects it and watches
over it all year long and
he is still, you know,
the master of the
technology, and that is,
you know, how lucky do I get?
>> LG: And then you bring
it to us here in the US
through these beautiful
emporiums and places
where you have a
display of these herbs,
people have a chance to
sample, to take these.
>> RT: Yeah, this is a look to
bar, at our Beverly Hills bar,
and just drink all kinds
of the different drinks.
Like you can see
these tonic wells,
these bottles are all filled
with different extracts
of the best.
So you can get reishi,
or you can get ginseng
or you can get ant extract,
or chaga extract or
different things.
>> LG: Ant extract?
>> RT: Well, ants grow, certain
kinds of mountain ant grows
with the ginseng, they
come with the territory.
And they have the immune
system of the ginseng,
part of the immune
system, so ant is,
they say ginseng is
the kind of herbs,
but ant is the herb of kings.
And you could just kind
of imagine the power
these things have.
>> LG: You take the
extract of the ant?
>> RT: Yeah.
>> LG: OK.
>> RT: It is one of the
most popular things we have
and I do not know why.
I do not know why
>> LG: Yeah, I am wrapping
my head around that one
>> RT: We can make
that show someday
>> LG: What about the deer
antler now that we are
on that track, it is not the
antler of the deer is it?
>> RT: Yeah it is, I
actually have some of it here.
Deer antler is one of the
great things in the world.
They do not hurt the deer,
they are highly protected,
they are very carefully
nurtured;
they are allowed to run wild.
But in the spring when the
deer antler is about this long,
about twelve inches long,
they cut the deer antler off,
then the deer live much longer.
>> LG: Does it grow back?
>> RT: Yeah they grow
back that season even.
The deer become much
less violent.
They are happier deer,
they tend to mate,
you know how one deer
usually gets all the girls.
>> LG: OK.
>> RT: In the forest, but in -
>> LG: I do not know
that many deer.
>> RT: But that is what happens.
They fight.
You see them butting heads.
>> LG: Yeah.
>> RT: That is because
when their antlers get big,
they will go to the best
guy gets the whole herem,
and in this situation, because
they cut the antlers off,
then they just become a
much more sharing family.
>> LG: Interesting
>> RT: And it is kind
of, it is very good,
and I know people argue
that we're using them,
but the truth is, deer antler,
it contains, it grows like that
because it has got stem cells
that are all available
in the last inch.
Most people sell the
whole deer antler,
most of the deer antler product,
but we take the last inch,
because that is where all
the growth is taking place,
and it is just loaded
with stem cells,
and those help us regenerate,
and that is why it
is considered one
of the most important
Jing tonic in the world,
for restoring your Jing.
And since they do
not hurt the deer,
and I have gone many many times.
It is OK.
>> LG: Are you sure?
>> RT: I am sure.
I have been there many
many, I have ridden
on the backs, you
know I love deer.
>> LG: If you think about
it, they are the ones,
the deer eat the herbs
all day long, I mean,
they are in the fields...
>> RT: The deer actually
eat reishi mushroom.
That is one of their
favorite things.
And they eat the ginseng.
One of the ways ginseng
can die is deer find them,
deer are considered a higher
order animal, they are very,
they give you spiritual power,
they're man's friend, they were,
I have art up by my many
pieces of art by my,
of the God of longevity
and the spiritual Gods,
with deer as their friend,
and I agree with that.
I would not kill
a deer, you know,
but I would let them share
their antler with me.
>> LG: I see that a lot on the
different types of Chinese art,
and so forth, you see
the deer is there.
>> RT: Representative of
longevity and well being,
and the deer do not suffer.
It is, I could go into the
detail of what is happening,
but it is, they are
very protected.
>> LG: OK, well that
is good to know.
>> RT: And yeah, and.
>> LG: So then is
there anything else
that we have not covered,
the chaga mushroom.
>> RT: I have a little
chunk of chaga here,
chaga comes from Siberia.
It comes from real north in
Siberia, and it is very similar
to the reishi mushroom.
There is many kinds of
hard woody mushrooms
that are very beneficial to
humans, and chaga just happens
to be one of those
ones that has a legacy
that has been established over
a very long time of protection.
You know, it protects.
People who take it,
it is very protective.
In terms and when I say
protective, I mean, you know,
those things that cause us to
age or to go out of balance.
Chaga and reishi, and there
is other ones like that,
the cordyceps is a mushroom.
You know, the woody mushrooms
are very very powerful.
They make a very
big part of my life.
And I take probably five or
six different woody mushrooms.
>> LG: And this turns into
a powder as well, right?
>> RT: Yeah, you can
turn it into a powder;
let me see if I have a
sample of it here, excuse me.
This one is, we just get
it, we have it extracted
in a certain kind of way
at a certain temperature,
have it just right, then
you get all the ingredients.
If it is too hot, too
cold, it does not- This is
from Siberia and
it is only wild.
>> LG: And there is
also Siberian ginseng
and Panax ginseng and those
types of ginseng are based
on the regions that
they are from?
>> RT: Well, ginseng
comes from either,
as far as we are concerned
it comes from, mountain.
Anything else in China
is inferior for sure.
Even the Chinese all know that.
It is like that is
what they would put,
just because of that chemistry.
You cannot reproduce, even
if it does grow up, you know,
all kinds of regions around it,
it is considered lower quality.
It is also great great great
ginseng grown in America.
In the Catskill Mountains.
It is considered the equivalent
to Shanghai Mountain ginseng,
and when it is wild, and
so the Chinese buy most
of that from us.
As a matter of fact, it was-
>> LG: Interesting.
>> RT: It has been a
trade thing with China
for five hundred years now,
so it is very important
that we use it a lot.
>> LG: You said this is one
of your favorites, this is?
>> RT: I love that
>> LG: What is it?
>> RT: This is a kind of flower.
It is called Albizzia.
There are two kinds of albizzia.
There is another one that
is a flower, and I was going
to bring it today because
I have an albizzia tree,
but I could not get
up high enough.
It was growing; the
flowers are up too high.
I thought of it last
minute this morning,
I am going to fall
there and break my neck
and not make it to the show.
There are two kinds of albizzia,
and this is one of them.
You can see what it smells like.
>> LG: Berry!
>> RT: It is a very potent,
beautiful, sweet, aero,
you could definitely
make a perfume out of it
to get the subtleties out of it.
But when you take albizzia
flower, it calms your emotions.
It is called a major shen tonic,
shen being your spiritual power.
So, that particular kind of
albizzia comes from the jungles
of southern China, like in,
like Vietnam, places like that.
It is very floral, beautiful,
it, people who tend to get angry
and tense, you know, frustrated,
then this kind of albizzia just,
you just, it does not make you
flat, it just makes you calm.
>> LG: Have you been
to the fields?
>> RT: For this, yeah
I have seen this.
>> LG: For the flowering.
>> RT: It is actually
a pink, white, like a,
close to magnolia
flower type of thing.
>> LG: Probably very
fragrant field.
>> RT: Yeah.
>> LG: You have had such
amazing adventures, travels.
>> RT: You have to
go to the field.
You know, one thing-
>> LG: To experience it
>> RT: But the truth is the most
important thing is to take them.
The compliance.
If you take these herbs,
even if you mix them up,
but try to take, you know,
a blend of the best things
in the world, by the way if I
may mention that dragon herbs,
we have many licensed
acupuncturists that are
on our call center, and that is
like a missionary type
of fervor we have.
It is a free service;
you can call
and get advice and consultation.
If you want to buy the herbs
from us you can or not.
We are, you know, that is
what we do, we turn people
on to tonic herbs and
tell you how to use them
>> LG: You share the
knowledge with people.
>> RT: That is our job in life.
>> LG: Not only to these
beautiful emporiums,
but you also have...the picture
that we saw of the emporium,
the tonic bars, you can also go
and you can sample these things
and drink them right
there, right?
>> RT: Yeah, you can
drink them right there.
We do have many many drinks,
and we are expanding our
menu, actually right now.
There is a showing in
a year we will be done,
but right now we are making
all kinds of new elixir based
on the things we have been able
to bring together the
last couple of years.
I think it is going to
be, it already is one
of the most advanced
tonic bars in the world,
we are in another
growth phase right now.
>> LG: What is a tonic bar?
I mean, when you started it
you said you could not keep
people out.
>> RT: Well, that is the
extracts of things like reishi,
or rhodiola, you
know, like gynostemma,
these kinds of things.
And we extract them
in our different ways,
and you can make drinks out
of them, you can consume them
in a very pleasant way.
You can take them as capsules
because that is convenient.
I wake up in the morning,
and I have a little spinner,
and I have my herbs in
there and I just take five
or six things then
maybe come back
and take some more
in the afternoon.
It is part of my daily
routine, I love to walk
into my home elixir bar, it
is like walking into a temple.
>> LG: Oh how fun.
>> RT: So we have made the
elixir bar sort of like that.
You can walk in and try
different things, you don't have
to buy the whole bottle
obviously, you can try a drink,
and if you feel good from
it, or you read about it,
it is just a way to, it
is more than sampling,
you can actually make
it a routine if you live
in Los Angeles, or when
you come into the store
to get your stuff, you
can try something new,
and the herbalist- I have
built a body of two believers
around me who understand
the herbs,
they are all amazingly
knowledgeable.
You know, they know
everything I know,
I mean I would trust
my life with them.
There they are to tell
you about the herbs.
>> LG: And they are
online as well for you,
or available by phone.
>> RT: Yeah, available
by phone and online,
and we are just available.
We have made ourselves
like that.
>> LG: Well, it is wonderful.
And so, just to, if someone were
to start off on a basic program,
you would recommend
of course the chaga.
Is that, is this red
by the way, the chaga?
>> RT: That is not chaga,
that one is saffron.
>> LG: Saffron?
>> RT: Saffron it comes, this
particular saffron it comes
from Tibet, and it is, they
use a little bit in a tea
and it opens your heart.
It is a very spiritual herb.
You know, that much saffron,
you pay for that when you go
to the little markets,
right, in the little vial.
>> LG: Yeah.
>> RT: You just take a
little bit like this.
>> LG: A little pinch.
>> RT: Yeah a little pinch, you
mix it with the gynostemma tea
and it actually opens you
heart, it is like a holy herb
>> LG: And if you put it
in with the red mushroom?
>> RT: It would just
turn it even redder,
and that one improves
your circulation.
You asked a couple-
>> LG: Circulation
and increasing blood.
>> RT: It yeah, now you see
you are becoming an herbalist.
That is what you do.
>> LG: I can see how
this would be fun
>> RT: You have built the
blood, and that will help it
to circulate well, and
that is so healthy.
How healthy a thing
can you have?
Because our circulation is
fundamental to our well being.
>> LG: It is so easy, it is so
easy, and it is so beautiful,
and thank you so much for
sharing what you have shared
with us today, this
is all fascinating
and fun and beautiful.
And all towards radiant
health and longevity.
Does not get any
better than that.
>> RT: It was my pleasure.
>> LG: Thank you so much
>> RT: And people contact
us, we are open to talk.
>> LG: Great, thank you.
Well, if you would like to
watch a replay with my interview
with Ron Teeguarden,
go to gaiamtv.com,
and until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[Music]